Continuous Staking ACP (#236)
avalanche-foundation/ACPs: ACPs/236-continuous-staking/README.md

| ACP           | 236                                                         |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Title**     | Continuous Staking                                          |
| **Author(s)** | Razvan Angheluta ([@rrazvan1](https://github.com/rrazvan1)) |
| **Status**    | Proposed                                                    |
| **Track**     | Standards                                                   |

## Abstract

This proposal introduces continuous staking for validators on the Avalanche P-Chain. Validators can stake their tokens
continuously, allowing their stake to compound over time, accruing rewards once per specified cycle.

## Motivation

The current staking system on the Avalanche P-Chain restricts flexibility for stakers, limiting their ability to respond
to changing market conditions or liquidity needs. Managing a large number of nodes is also challenging, as re-staking at
the end of each period is labor-intensive, time-consuming, and poses security risks due to

> the required transaction signing. Additionally, tokens can remain idle at the end of a staking period

Reviewer: Are many users managing a large number of nodes? The staking limit is up to 3M AVAX

until stakers initiate the necessary transactions to stake them again.

## Specification

Continuous staking introduces a mechanism that allows validators to remain staked indefinitely, without having to
manually submit new staking transactions at the end of each period.

> Instead of committing to a fixed end time upfront, validators specify a cycle duration (period) when they submit an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of committing to a fixed endtime upfront, validators specify a cycle duration (period) when they submit an
```

AddContinuousValidatorTx. At the end of each cycle, the validator is automatically re-staked for a new cycle of the same
duration, unless the validator has submitted a StopContinuousValidatorTx. If a validator submits a
StopContinuousValidatorTx during a cycle, the validator will continue validating until the end of the current cycle, at

> which point the validator exits and funds unlock. The minimum and maximum cycle lengths follow the same protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which point the validator exits and the funds are unlocked. The minimum and maximum cycle lengths follow the same protocol
```

parameters as before (`MinStakeDuration` and `MaxStakeDuration`).

Delegators interact with continuous validators in the same way as with fixed-period validators, and the same constraints
apply: a delegation period must fit entirely within the validator’s cycle. Delegators cannot delegate across multiple

> cycles, since there is no guarantee that a validator will continue validating after the current cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delegator interaction remains unchanged, and the same constraints apply: a delegation period must fit entirely within the validator’s cycle. Delegators cannot delegate across multiple
cycles, since there is no guarantee that a validator will continue validating after the current cycle.
Essentially, it is not possible to delegate continuously. 
```

Rewards accrue once per cycle, and they are automatically added to principal in subsequent cycles, both for validator
rewards and for delegation rewards. If the updated stake weight (previous stake + staking rewards + delegatee rewards)
exceeds the maximum stake limit defined in the network configuration, the excess amount is automatically withdrawn and

> sent to `ValidatorRewardsOwner` and `DelegatorRewardsOwner`.

Reviewer: This paragraph seems to contradict the previous: are delegation rewards 
a. paid out at the end of the cycle to the delegator and said delegator essentially dropped from the validator? or
b. added to the existing delegation stake and included in the next cycle of validation?

  
  // Where to send delegation rewards when done validating
  DelegatorRewardsOwner fx.Owner `serialize:"true" json:"delegationRewardsOwner"`
  
  // Fee this validator charges delegators as a percentage, times 10,000
  // For example, if this validator has DelegationShares=300,000 then they
  // take 30% of rewards from delegators
  DelegationShares uint32 `serialize:"true" json:"shares"`
  
  // Weight of this validator used when sampling
  Wght uint64 `serialize:"true" json:"weight"`
}

```

#### StopContinuousValidatorTx

```golang
type StopContinuousValidatorTx struct {
  // Metadata, inputs and outputs
  BaseTx `serialize:"true"`
  
  // ID of the tx that created the continuous validator.
  TxID ids.ID `serialize:"true" json:"txID"`
  
  // Authorizes this validator to be stopped.
  // It is a BLS Proof of Possession signature of the TxID using validator key.
  StopSignature [bls.SignatureLen]byte `serialize:"true" json:"stopSignature"`
}
```

`StopSignature` is the BLS Proof of Possession signature of the tx ID of `AddContinuousValidatorTx` using the validator
key.

#### RewardContinuousValidatorTx

```golang

> type RewardContinuousValidatorTx struct {

Reviewer: At what point is this transaction initiated? when in the continuous staking flow does this transaction happen? 

It would be helpful to define a "flow of a continuous validator" to better understand the order of operations here

| ACP           | 236                                                         |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Title**     | Continuous Staking                                          |
| **Author(s)** | Razvan Angheluta ([@rrazvan1](https://github.com/rrazvan1)) |
| **Status**    | Proposed                                                    |
| **Track**     | Standards                                                   |

## Abstract

This proposal introduces continuous staking for validators on the Avalanche P-Chain. Validators can stake their tokens
continuously, allowing their stake to compound over time, accruing rewards once per specified cycle.

## Motivation

The current staking system on the Avalanche P-Chain restricts flexibility for stakers, limiting their ability to respond

> to changing market conditions or liquidity needs. Managing a large number of nodes is also challenging, as re-staking at

Author: I would inverse the perspective: based on the **_expected_** duration (because it is not fixed anymore) of staking, and how flexible validator would like to be, he can choose a period granular enough for their preference.

So yes, even if the minimum period length is the same as the current minimum staking duration, it still provides flexibility.

_Note: there is an exception: if validator is willing to stake for [2weeks, 4weeks), there isn't much he can do. Or as a rule: [MinStakeDuration, 2 * MinStakeDuration)_

will continue validating after the current cycle. Essentially, it is not possible to delegate continuously.

Rewards accrue once per cycle, and are automatically added to the validator's existing stake in subsequent cycles, both
for validation rewards and for delegatee rewards. If the updated stake weight (previous stake + staking rewards +
delegatee rewards) exceeds the maximum stake limit defined in the network configuration, the excess amount is
automatically withdrawn and sent to `ValidatorRewardsOwner` and `DelegatorRewardsOwner`.

Because of the way `RewardValidatorTx` is structured, multiple instances cannot be issued without resulting in identical
transaction IDs. To resolve this, a new transaction type has been introduced for both rewarding and stopping continuous
validators: `RewardContinuousValidatorTx`. Along with the validator’s creation transaction ID, it also includes a
timestamp. For simplicity and consistency, any stake exceeding the maximum limit is withdrawn from the validator, and
the resulting UTXOs are tied to the `RewardContinuousValidatorTx` ID.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we should specify how uptime requirements work for continuous validators here as well.
